This is what you're talking about.
STC was, yes.
There was no nonsense with Wing, but still, he was very different.
He was very different.
He was a snob lover.
Do you know Roger's son at all?
Roger's helped me a lot.
He's very nice and very helpful.
He's very wonderful.
posed a Socratic kind of a question to me.
He said, I'd be interested in knowing not why people start collecting, because there are any number of reasons for that.
He said, but I'd be just as interested in knowing why some people stop collecting.
Stop?
Stop.
He didn't say Arthur Colton, but I think he was probably thinking of him, you know, I wonder why somebody like Colton all the time.
I think probably the reasons are much less interesting in why they start collecting.
You stopped collecting, I suppose, because you're weary and old.
You don't have room for your books?
What did you say?
Your wife says, I'm going in for diamonds if you go in for books.
Trish and Bob did tell me an interesting story.
He didn't want to name the guy, but the guy came into his office and said, my wife said if he was
me of the books yeah and so he claims to found a home for them at one of the universities in new york and but i guess the guy also wanted to make sure that the books stayed together as a collection like that that happens doesn't it i guess when a lot of people look at jerome kern there's a great there's a great example he had a wonderful collection but i think he kind of knew maybe he maybe he knew that the crash was coming he also sold all his stock
You can keep it out.
You can keep it out at the right time.
But I guess for a lot of people, also, the acquisition is a big kick.
That's it, I think.
Getting the things... I think it's an acquisition.
And these people aren't you collecting.
Well, they love stamps of books.
They really do.
That I have every shape to be a full year.
That's my accomplishment.
The state is to, why do you buy things?
Well, to look at.
If we talk about the extraordinary prices that are now being paid for books, but when you think about it, now that we talk about the garden sale, for instance, in November, I'm doing quite a bit of research on Mr. Haven.
Have you ever said anything?
We know that, and we didn't sell to more of it.
That's a fascinating story.
That's a fascinating story, which I've been working on.
Whether or not it'll get in my book, everything I know,
Because, again, you have to decide that we still have to focus on book collecting, you know.
That might be an article that I write.
You know who... I don't suppose you have spoken with Marvin Mondland?
Marvin, I know.
You do know?
Yeah.
Because he's doing a book on the Fourth Avenue deal with news.
I think that's a nice idea.
Very nice.
In fact, I've given him some books.
See, I sold my book on the structural proposal.
and he's trying to write the whole book and sell the book, and I said, I love it.
I know, we should try and, you know.
I feel very secure with the knowledge that I have a contract.
Of course.
And that I haven't had any hands.
And that I know that my enemies... I've told him that too.
You know, but otherwise you're working on speculation.
I think he's scared that he won't.
I think he is.
I think he is, but I like...
The idea.
The idea is excellent.
Excellent.
And he's really working at it.
He's interviewed many people.
There comes a point where you really have to... Like, I'm at that point now.
I'm at that point.
I started the research in earnest in November.
That's not so.
That's six months of really major research.
I've been to Texas.
God knows how many times I've been to Boston and Harvard and Cambridge.
And I am kind of...
The circle, I started out here, and I'm kind of coming in closer to home.
That's why I haven't done the Beinecke yet.
It's only an hour and a half from me, and I haven't done the J.C.
Brown yet, because that's 45 minutes.
But those are very interesting stories.
The Brown story.
That's an instance of generational collecting, as is Scheide, isn't it, right?
Yeah, it was the young, the Scheide.
Well, he's the third generation.
How many?
He's the third generation.
And what is very interesting is that he won't really say what's going to happen to the collection, you know.
He has children.
However, if you have to think of inheritance now and taxes and stuff.
Of course, I didn't provide for the collection.
Did he in his will?
That was the trouble.
That was the trouble, I think.
Yeah, you're right.
But with Scheide's, Scheide's is a really fascinating case in that it is physically on the campus of Princeton University.
He has a room which is really not much larger than this room.
He really has 3,000 bodies.
It's not a muscular collection in terms of what it is.
Did you take a look at Marian Holden's library one year at Princeton?
Is that right?
I'm going back to Princeton.
The rare books are not in the Holden room, but the
More ordinary stuff.
I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
Steve Ferguson.
I wanted to talk to him.
It helped me a lot.
You gave me some ideas.
How about collectors?
Do you think that I'm, does it sound like I'm talking to the right people?
I think so.
I did.
Ed Wolfe did offer without asking.
He said he thought that they were the greatest living collector.
They were shiny.
After Freeman Fields and his Lady Eccles, Mary Hyde.
Mary Hyde.
Well, in his field.
She is, oh my God, she's a benefactress.
You go into the morgan and her name is there.
You go to the Bodleian and I hate this thing.
You go to Yale and Hartford.
We visited their home.
They lived in New Jersey.
Four Oaks.
Some of them.
I've talked to her, I've talked with the Grosje Club.
I've been really going everywhere.
I've been going to the auctions, I've been going... And that's the only way to do it, as usual.
I mean, you have to go out and do your work.
And I feel now I have a mess.
My wife says, what are you going to do?
Have you got an organization?
Yeah, it's so clear.
You're both writers, so you know.
I mean, it's... I feel just...
I have, yeah.
But only to use as counterpoint to the productive stuff.
That in itself is a book.
Yeah.
But I have to focus.
Now, you've heard of the incident out in Iowa.
Yes, you did.
Well, I've been getting everything on that.
In fact, I've talked to a doctor.
He's a school over.
He's at Iowa State University.
Yes.
He's the one the FBI called in.
I've been in touch with him.
Yeah.
But that's been sad.
But that's been written, though.
And that's bizarre.
I don't know what that's got to do with books.
That's crime.
This kid out in Iowa is fascinating because he was stealing books just to pay you.
He was a bibliocleftalaniac, is what he was.
He had been caught several times and had been allowed.
He was actually caught with burglars.
He might have traveled.
He traveled all over the United States.
And the reason he can't scoot over, I guess his name is, he said that the guy, what is really amazing is that he very carefully took the labels of every institution.
that he stole from.
He put them together.
He had a ledger.
It was like counting scalps.
They belonged?
Yeah.
He has kept a very meticulous record of the people he robbed from.
Maddie and I, oh God, about 15 years ago, lectured at Evansville, Indiana.
And at the lecture was, at the lecture, was a young man.
And a lady came up and said, would you like to visit his own life jersey poster?
Maybe you could buy a few, but he'd like to show them to it.
And a very not pleasant young man, and we went.
And the sponsors of this lecture were just horrified because they said he was guilty of stealing books from the library.
And he sort of fits in with this.
He was a black sheet.
And he had an awful lot of good books there.
So you probably have been traveling around, you might be just saying.
Well, my opening chapter, the introduction starts with the Alexandrian Library, of course.
And the apocryphal visit, not the Caesar's visit to Alexandria certainly was an apocryphal, but his visit to the library where Cleopatra had said to have given him his choice in everything.
And he took what he said to be 40,000 manuscripts, and he created them and put them in the wards.
And then the fire started, and it was all destroyed.
But no, the library itself wasn't destroyed.
You see, Gibbon was wrong on that, too.
It was really destroyed 900 years later by a Muslim named Omar Khalif.
But it is instructive.
I say there are people like Caesar who collect to acquire.
And there are those who, like the keepers of the books, who collect to preserve the product of human body.
Books are so fragile.
They're so delicate.
Well, when I was in England just two weeks ago,
Well, I said books are so fragile, and you say they're not.
That's interesting.
They're not.
You have a book from 1550, it says, Sturdy, and then a book printed in 1950.
But that's one that survived.
How many haven't?
War, fire, neglect, plot.
They didn't survive because of neglect.
Look at the last wall.
Look at what he's destroying the last wall, for heaven's sake.
Oh, look at that.
Oh, I guess it ran across the place.
And then we're looking at... Look at that.
Look at that.
What is the title of this?
You can say it to my machine.
Is that 1586?
Is that the cosmos?
Yeah.
The life of the cosmos.
I mean, they are very sturdy.
They're very sturdy.
I'll tell you, who started finding the great early books, and probably the greatest bookseller of modern times in early books, was E.P.
Goldschmidt.
the establishment, not a successor, he would go to the monasteries.
He went to the Austrian monasteries to milk, to monasteries in Salzburg, around, all to Austria.
And the monks after the First World War, a little money wouldn't hurt.
And they sold some of their greatest treasures, in Cannabula, to government.
And that's how he established
Great, great books in London.
Do you still make your trips to England?
No.
We stopped two years ago.
I wasn't well, and we didn't go.
And we find going to Europe, if we're quick on the trigger, we get to get one.
Press it immediately.
And phone.
Like the other day, I phoned to Germany.
Got nine books.
Wow.
We phoned to London in the morning.
We only wanted two.
We got one.
Well, all right.
But it doesn't say we're getting
You see, when you buy, when you're on the spot, say, say a Goldschmidt's today, you get to make up your mind quickly.
You can't do a dally.
You also have a very expensive hotel.
So this way you can do the copyright very well.
By the way, I should say for the record, you did take out the Aldine Medici here.
That's what this book is.
Is that right?
Yeah.
This book here, this is an Aldine.
This is one of the great
It's a wonderful book, I thought.
Vita di Cosimo di Medici.
It's a wonderful combination of names.
It's a beautiful book.
I looked fairly, and I didn't see any of it.
Ren di Toscana.
L-O-S-E-A-N-A.
Oh, this is just wonderful.
You know, really, I'll shut this off.
This wouldn't be the original binding, would it?
Uh, no.
That must be in 1879.
It's quite a nice binding, though.
This is a work I did for fun.
I had a collection of stamps relating to books.
Oh, that's very interesting.
Leonard Gaskin collects those.
Did you know that?
Well, he collects, he's quite an avid collector of that.
I didn't know that.
Stamps relating everything, like title pages, presses, and so forth.
Now, where could I get a copy of this?
I don't want my credo.
I feel a lot better if you took this away from me.
She should give you a picture.
But I don't know where it is.
I have a couple of copies, but I don't know where it is.
We spoke with the Lily Lager.
I'm going out there, by the way.
Yeah, well, Cagle.
Cagle, I've talked to you already.
They're very interesting stories.
Yeah.
Look at this, these stamps.
I haven't collected them.
But I thought, I don't know, you know, stamp collecting is a bit of a chore.
It's really, I don't know how I got into it.
That looks like Isaiah Thomas' press.
I bet you that's Isaiah Thomas.
I think it is.
Yes, I think that's what they did.
They just published a little booklet on the press.
Back there, make sure you get one.
I'll send you one.
Allow me to do that.
It's quite nice.
And I have a couple of things.
Oh, you're wonderful.
I don't know where my antiquarian is.
This is great.
This is super.
This is the kind of thing that I need.
It's the kind of thing that I need.
I don't know if you have it or you don't.
But it's a reconstruction.
Really?
Speaking of the Alzheimer's.
And then I sweep from there.
This is
You said that they're only fragile if they land in the wrong place and in the wrong hands, but that happens.
Unfortunately, tragically, regrettably, it happens.
They're vulnerable rather than fragile.
That's a much better word.
Much better word.
You're welcome.
Yeah, you're welcome.
That's very good.
I think it's true.
But how many people respect books?
I'm sorry, you were going to say something.
No, we don't.
I don't want to take up too much of your time.
I want to hear the arrangement.
Okay.
Well, all right.
So, I'll show you.
So, what?
Jefferson?
The library.
Is that right?
That's right.
Maddie works on that.
Which library are we talking about?
Jacksonville.
Really?
Well, every member of the New England delegation voted against it.
Daniel Webster, and you know why they didn't want it?
I mean, who wanted books by Rabelais?
What does Congress have to concern itself with folks there for it?
I mean, it was really good.
The great Paul Bayer collection of internavials was off of the Library of Congress, I think, in the 20s.
He said, well, there's Paul Bayer.
What is it, a drink?
This is the name of the original Loner.
What do we want with that?
And this was finally perjured to a lot of Stillman drama.
They finally perjured to it.
They were very against, I don't know, I think a million.
I think they were very much against the church.
Well, of course, you should bring the great Martinus Brooks and the Brooks to the Holocaust.
Of course, yeah.
You bring that in.
I'm sorry, I was thinking .
I thought so, because Jefferson's Library did go.
I was thinking to Virginia, too.
I'm sorry, I was thinking of .
But the point is, every Harvard graduate, there were 10 Harvard graduates in Congress voted against it.
There were, I think, eight Yale graduates, only one voted for it.
The day was carried by these purportedly uneducated southerners who thought that the books were a good idea.
Well, it's an interesting little story.
And then I will talk about people like Jeremy Belknap in front of The Messages.
So I think the title of my book is The Gentlest of Infirmities, which is a nice title.
So we will have Isaiah Thomas, Jeremy Belknap, I have a bunch of New Yorkers, Lennox,
The New York Public Library is really three collectors.
That's right.
Three individual collectors.
And I'm told I should talk to Brooke Astor.
What do you think?
Is that a good idea?
It would be fun, I think.
It would be fun.
Sure.
I don't know what you know.
She might not know, but she'd be interesting.
She's a very, very nice name to add to you.
And I'm planning to talk to Larry McMurtry, for instance.
Yes, yes, yes.
He's a book dealer.
He's got four or five bookstores.
One of his novels, Cadillac Jack, is about a bookstove.
The whole novel is about a bookstove.
I've already talked to Ricky Jay, the magician.
He's curator of the Mulholland Library.
Oh, yeah, sure.
Are you getting out of California?
Yes.
He's on my list.
Bill Williams-Self, I've talked to you about the last Camereland.
You want to speak to one of the buildings in Los Angeles?
Yeah.
They have long history.
Dawson?
Yeah, I know.
Dawson's bookshop in Los Angeles.
Yeah, I don't know where Bonnie is now.
I think it's... Bonnie's in Berkeley.
I'll be getting up.
I have to go to the Huntington, of course.
Gene Strauss is doing a biography of Morgan.
And so obviously Morgan will be in there.
I have a wonderful chapter.
I think it's wonderful.
Comager.
No, the letter was from Cass Canfield asking me if I would be interested that Comager had suggested me for it.
And of course, it fascinated me.
And I said, yes, we were both going to work on it.
We were both going to do it if the materials were available.
Who has Cassidy in there?
Well, I imagine the Morgan does.
I got home with Will, which was very interesting.
She left an awful lot of fine jewelry for Cartier.
Well, there's a woman, I'm told, who worked with her.
Morgan had her name.
Well, I wish her luck.
You know who she is?
Some will lose, and I retired from the Morgan.
Because I went through there the last time in New York, and briefly introduced myself.
Harper's tried to get the material to be made available.
Really?
No soap.
You think it's going to be kept unavailable indefinitely?
No, it can't be online.
I wouldn't want to.
But again, I'm interested in so far, that's essential for a biography, but for my book,
But she certainly was an extraordinary woman.
Oh, my God.
She had a lot of room.
She wore a lot of room.
I remember I was there thrashing.
I was at 62nd Manson.
He asked me to put them in the book down in the morning.
I was scared to death.
And I stood in the threshold with the book.
She was just going to make them from death.
My fourth school in the morning, she looked at me and said,
Young lady, bring the book directly into my presence.
That's a great story.
I can use that, right?
Well, I crossed that room to a present, which was a fear and distress.
I remember another time I was doing my original dissertation.
Now, this class, did this happen when you were... I was working for writing when this happened, but I was doing my dissertation.
When I went, I had to go to the mall, and it was something, some newspaper or something, and I went there.
And the librarian, I think, wasn't in charge of the book.
And he said, be very careful if this book is missed.
This copy, the binding, belongs to any of the aid.
No white gloves, though.
No white gloves.
And I just was straight open.
I was straight after the book.
But they love to use it.
Do you know Arthur and Charlotte Vershbow?
They're collectors up in New York.
His name is Arthur Vershbow.
Oh, yeah, sure.
These engravings are biomas.
17th century.
I'd love to hold around this thing, though.
Does that know?
Yes.
Her father taught her the use of the bowling.
How do you rate Lisa Baskin's collection?
You know, we've never seen her collection.
What I saw of it is quite remarkable, I have to say.
When I can see it's a remarkable collection.
And of course, there aren't that many like it.
That's why there is room for the collector, I think.
As long as there's a new area that hasn't been mined and that hasn't been preserved, there is hope for collectors, I think.
He needs space today for the collector.
A hundred years ago, the collector had all the space he needed.
He could afford a huge house.
But today, living
For the average collector.
You don't have a lot, Jerry.
Books just overflow.
They're in the way.
We have a very good friend, who's a great James collector, Andy James collector.
You know how to get into our house?
Because we've said any questions.
You're a marvelous collector.
I've been in a very celebrated future.
I would collect James, if I could afford it.
And she has probably the best private Henry James collector.
Really?
Certainly, one of the best.
She has a significant collection.
Manuscript stuff?
Yes.
Letters.
Is this somebody I should know?
I think you should know.
Yes, I think you could.
You are very interested.
Who was the receipt?
Her name ... I really need some women collectors, by the way.
Yes, she and I went to college, too.
What's her name?
Her name is Adeline, A-D-E-L-I-N-E.
Tintner is her professional name, T-I-N-T-N-E-L-R.
She's married to Dr. Janowitz, second name is Janowitz, and she lives at 180 East End Avenue.
Can I call her?
Yes, sure.
Call her.
Be sure you tell her we suggest her.
Of course, and if she doesn't want to talk to me, that's fine.
That's great.
She is, I mean, she is, what I would say, a super
But average collector, a person who can afford to collect.
Who can or can't?
She's a very interesting person.
She's a strange woman.
She said can or can't.
She sees connections.
She's done a lot of writing on James based upon her.
Really?
She's written about it.
It's a productive collection.
And so I would find titles under her, under that name, Adeline?
Yes, absolutely.
When I go to Harvard next week, I'll see her.
Absolutely.
You have used my, or seen my book on aspirin books.
Okay, I'm going to ask you both to... To Jefferson, who was then president.
Okay, this is, now this book here is... This is a... Okay.
I've done a lot of work on the Franco-American book trade, and this was...
published by the Philadelphia Philadelphia.
Oh, okay.
That was done in 88.
So I get a copy of this from... You can get a copy of that from them.
Yes, I'm sorry.
That's right.
Philadelphia Club, 1988, Philadelphia.
Okay, let me just read this.
This is January 31st, 1803.
Yes.
President Jefferson, I send you the catalog of books remaining to me from the library of Dr. Franklin.
If you have looked it over, I beg you to deliver it to the librarian of Congress to whom I propose in the belief that it would be so authorized to make the purchase of the collection unblocked or in price.
What were the use for that money, brackets, the sum allocated by Congress for the purchase of the library, sir, that you use it to rescue the books of one of the founders of the American Republicans is very important.
I have a great man, exclamation point.
It is not a spirit of speculation that makes me use this language for outside of the fact
that these books belong in the National Library, being in the Irish crime on the politics, the legislation, and the experience of America.
I would dispose of them at a price so reasonable at one that never accused me of such effect.
So did they buy it?
They didn't.
How did you find that?
Well, I did a lot of work.
How do you find it?
I'm going to have to.
He had to, in the end, auction off parts of it and sell parts of it through the year.
So.
Franklin's book.
Obviously, Franklin was not as revered then as he is today.
The Library of Congress had already spent its allotment.
Unbelievable.
All right, let's do another comment.
1776, 1834.
I guess you ladies go off to the...
We'll go off to the country pretty soon, is that right?
Yeah, hopefully June 9th.
Good for you.
And we have to do a big article for a library, on the collections, and now we have a new program.
So books have, they have given you energy.
They don't stop giving you energy, is what I sense.
I don't think it's really important.
It's amazing.
It doesn't sound like retirement is a word.
It's in your catalog.
Absolutely not.
Now, what is your first name?
Nick.
Nicholas.
N-I-C-H?
Yes.
Please.
I can get this next week.
And it's B-A-S-B-A-N-E-S.
Very good.